hello friends I hope it's okay this is
the second video in which we are
describing some elements of the
energy reform all these data are
public and verifiable may be
find in pemex documents of
Mexican Institute of Competitiveness
the link or comexi that is the council
mexican international affairs
also from the energy secretariat of
the national feel of the industry
chemistry aniq and the coparmex that is the
patronal confederation of the republic
Mexican in the end all are available
and whoever may check in
this video I will talk about some ironies
Mexican energy sector
first and it's about refining or
be the production of pemex gasoline
has six refineries at a level
national and with one more in houston texas
which is called new park or pemex
it also has a refinery in usa in
the partnership with a company so
I know where Mexican oil is refined
It turns out that this refinery is the most
efficient pemex
a refinery that is in the USA where
pemex and can be associated with companies
private companies in other countries when comparing
pemex refineries that are in mexico
against deer park we see that dir
park is much more efficient for each
barrel of oil that is processed and
earns a profit of 7.3 dollars
instead half of the refineries in
Mexico is not only inefficient but
that instead of profits have
losses the wood refinery by
example for every barrel of oil that
process loses $ 1.1 in saline
cross is lost at 80 cents and
the minatitlan 30 cents per
every barrel of oil processed as much
ironic is that we do not allow pemex
Partnering in Mexico with other companies
but if you can do it abroad
if pemex would like to build a
associated refinery consell instead of
put it in houston
I would like to put it in veracruz or the
gentleman
I could not do it because the law does not
allows the current legal framework the
investments, jobs and taxes
generated are left in the USA instead of
that investment jobs and taxes are
stay in Mexico at the same time we are
importing gasoline from abroad
mainly from the USA in total today
we import 49 percent of the
gasolines that we consume we arrived at this
ironic situation because we have a
very closed legal framework or pemex
can associate and let other
companies can produce gasoline for their
account in Mexico and how we do not produce
everything we need we have to
import more and more with a reform
energy at the constitutional level
pemex associated with private companies u
other companies by themselves could
produce gasolines in Mexico like this
would build new refineries and
would guarantee the national supply and all
that investment would translate into higher
jobs
resources for the country the second irony
is that we are a country that has many
natural gas resources but not pemex
explodes them today we are importing a
third of the natural gas that we consume
how is it that this happens pemex has to
choose between two things to pemex produce
a barrel of oil costs between 15
and $ 20 and sell it for $ 100 or
it has a gain of about 80
Dollars
instead, producing them costs about 3
dollars and you can sell it to 350 or
he's only earning him 50 cents
dollar
obviously pemex goes to the business that
leaves more money than is the produce
oil the problem is that the gas that
we need no one else can produce it
because of what our
constitution and the law what
supposedly protects our sovereignty
However, because of the prohibition
we end up importing from abroad what
that makes us more dependent
It is also illogical that Mexican companies
that can not produce gas in mexico
have to do it outside of our country
for example the newpek company that is
subsidiary of the Mexican conglomerate
Alfa has 300 extraction wells
of shale gas and oil in texas
with a production of 7 thousand 100 barrels
of oil daily in fact in the
second quarter of 2013 this company
announced an investment of 17 million
dollars in the us this investment could
be in Mexico today if the constitution
allow it that's why we need a
energy reform at the
constitutional the third irony also
it has to do with the fall of production
of natural gas but focus on the
way this affects the rates
electricity to generate electricity
you need a primary fuel some
hydrocarbon eg natural gas
fuel oil or diesel as we do not count
with enough natural gas we have
that generate the electric
with fuel oil or they say they are four and
Six times more expensive than natural gas
In addition, fuel oil and diesel are
less clean fuels as their
greenhouse gas emissions
The use of fuel oil and
diesel increases generation costs
of electricity what finally
increases the price of the light receipt is
ironic that being a country with a lot of gas
natural, we are not producing it or
we allow nobody else to produce it with
the energy reform there would be multiple
natural gas producers in mexico well
we could generate electricity more
clean and cheaper and reduce the price
of the light receipts the fourth
irony is the transport of gasolines the
legal framework that we have today not
It allows private companies to
transport this gasoline products without
However, if we allow these companies
private do the transport with
trucks the ironic thing is that transportation
by trucks it costs up to
13 points 5 times more than product and it's
more insecure how is it possible that our
legal framework does allow investment
in a riskier and more expensive transport
but does not allow investment in new
pipeline infrastructure that would give us
much more competitive more
efficient and much safer the
energy reform seeks that those
companies that are already transporting
trucks can also do this
transportation through ducts friends
these were some of the ironies of
our energy sector in conclusion
our system is very closed and it is
closed with pretty and logical criteria
we do not let pemex associate here but
yes that is associated in the USA to generate
investment jobs and paying taxes there
instead of doing it here in mexico
neither do we let companies
private companies produce natural gas and
gasolines in Mexico supposedly to
protect sovereignty but we end
buying these energetics in the extra
returning to the most dependent ones either
we allow private companies that
they already do transport by trucks what
do in the safest and cheapest way
by pipelines or our system
encourages private investment in a
more expensive and more dangerous transport
also being Mexico a country with a lot
natural gas by not allowing anyone to
extract we are producing
electricity with fuel oil and they say that
they are much more expensive and less clean than
the natural gas to finish with these
ironies is that we need a reform
constitutional on energy matters
good friends until the next bye